The Joe Rogan experience. It's true. Mm-hmm <affirmative> it's true. Yeah.
Why sh why should joy have boundaries? It shouldn't.
It shouldn't, we're all scared. No, you I'm not. This is,
I had this conversation, this friend of mine about, uh, Bernie Sanders.
We were talking about socialism and you I'm like, he's like,
I never thought you'd be into socialism. I got, I'm not in his socialism, but,
but what,
what about fixing the things that are broken doesn't seem appealing to you.
And we have socialism for a lot of different things like the fire department,
the police department. Right. But I'm like, but I, that's not what I'm into.
This is what I'm really into.
I'm really into like people having a big stake in the community.
And I think when you look out for other people,
that's when you have the biggest stake in community mm-hmm <affirmative>.
And I think that's one of the things we're missing today and we're missing.
We can, we can do it in our neighborhoods. Like we were talking about like,
you know, your neighbors, it's really nice,
but I think we could do it in an expansive way,
as long as we didn't give in to the, the,
the temptation to be to people that we don't know. Right.
And we treat everybody as if we're all, all a part of a community,
I think that can be done.
And I think the best way to sort of enhance that kind of thinking is to make
decisions that are for the downtrodden,
make decisions that are for the working class and the people that are struggling
and the people that are just trying to put food in the table and keep a,
a home heated that's that's concentrating on that first before anything,
cuz those are the hardest hardships. Yeah.
And there's too many people that have this idea that everyone that's in that
experience is there because they're lazy or because they don't work hard or
because they people really.
Think that they do. That's.
So ignorant excuses. There's a lot of people that do think like that,
but it is because it is, it is if they're ignorant, but it's, it's a,
also that they don't know,
they haven't experience with those people who experience. And if they,
this is the thing about every person alive, you look at a person,
look at a person who's doing great. Look at a person who's falling apart.
You would be that person. If you did what they did,
there's not much difference between us. Yeah. Agree.
Unless you're talking about physical things,
like the difference between you seeing bolts running speed and the difference
between mine. Like this is certain physical things. This are, unsemmountable,
I'm positive thinking, bro. Like it's not happening. It's it's not happening.
Right. There's certain things you can't get past. Right.
But there's a lot of things you can. Yeah. You know, I agree. And,
and one of the problems that we all have is our perception.
The way we look at things,
if we could look at things as more like we're all cool, we're all, all together.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> like, nobody wants you to do bad. Like let's all do good.
We can all do good together. We can,
we could all go forward with that mindset wrong. There are.
Some people that want you to do bad. And those people also deserve attention.
Exactly. Need a need hug. They need.
That part. They need a hug. We're we for?
They're just so scared history we're treating. 'em the wrong way. Yeah.
We're treating them like we need to kill 'em and drown the.
River. No, they're they're they're not the bad guy. It's like,
it's like the hurt people hurt people thing. You know? You just,
you gotta exactly see those people and say, Hey,
I see you and I'm gonna hug you. And yes. And like let's all move together.
Yes. And then the problem is some of 'em are, are really legitimately broken.
Yeah.
Like some people have done a terrible job of raising their kids to the point
where they're broken their kids and those kids need to have,
find some way back to the garden. You know, it it's hard.
And that's the reality of scale. The,
the fact that there's 350 million people just in America.
I mean, is' that the number is that north America that's pretty close.
That's crazy for us to try to put that into perspective is almost impossible.
I don't think we even understand what that number means and that we're all
supposed to be a team, but I think it's possible.
I think we just have to look at it the right way.
Like you have to have no room for.
Bagery no room for treating. That's impossible, but it's not impossible.
I don't think it is.
I think people just need a higher level of guidance and of understanding
of the consequences of not behaving that way.
And the benefits of behaving that way.
The problem is we look at it like it's a negative, like somehow or another.
It's a weakness. If you're, if you show,
if you show any sort of sympathy or compassion or right.
Or under,
or try to have some understanding for people who are downtrodden or poor people
who look at you, like you're weak. Like no, you're,
you're looking at the wrong way.
You're looking at you feel uncomfortable about it because it makes you feel
weird because there's too many variables and it'd be better if you just nail it
down into a one or a zero either're lazy or they're good. Hardworking people.
If they're good, hardworking people to figure it out. And if they're lazy,
they don't it's, it's not binary. It's.
Not B like that's the thing. Exactly. That's exactly rights. Like we're so yeah,
it's, there's so.
Much more just too many of us. Yeah. There's too many variables.
The idea that like no one should get help. That's so crazy.
I was on welfare when I was a kid. It's it's important.
It's important for people. It keeps 'em fed. Yeah.
Like gives people a chance mm-hmm <affirmative> like,
and that doesn't mean that people are gonna come steal your money.
That means we should all chip in a little bit. Yeah.
But we have to figure out how to make sure that the government has our
confidence, right.
That we feel like we can throw them our money and they're gonna do the right
thing with it and we're gonna help communities. We're gonna help people.
And that's what everybody's wary about for a good reason.
It's cuz who the knows who's taking your money.
They don't give you an accountant sheet.
They don't show you what they're spending it on. You just give it.
Up. Know that's what I meant earlier when I was like, I don't know. What's true.
I don't know. I know it's hard, but at the same time,
I think what you're saying is so powerful because like, <affirmative>,
you can have your sort of government, uh, uh,
affiliations and like, oh,
these are the people that are quote unquote taking care of us.
And then you can also take care of yourself and each other and recognize your
neighbors and recognize your community and,
and kind of build from the ground up. Know who your,
your local representatives are, you know, for Fox sake,
like your kids in their schools. And like, yes,
all that stuff like that is a very powerful tool.
Well, and, and even, I mean,
those are official titles and official designations and all that stuff is
awesome too. But it's also just know who the is around you. Right. And like,
and, and, and being nice to each other and figure it out together.
Like we're all acting like everybody is not gonna help
you and everybody's not gonna understand you. And then when that gets fed to a,
a scale of this impossible number of 350 million people,
350 million people doesn't even make sense to us.
It's so hard for us to ever understand what it's like to try to like do
what's best for 350 million people. It doesn't make sense. Right.
So you just do what's best for yourself and you go, it's gonna work itself out.
Yeah. It's gonna sort itself out. And if there's ever a conspiracy,
there's no action involved in that. Exactly.
And if there's ever a conspiracy to keep people stupid, that's a conspiracy.
Yeah. Make that seem like it's normal. Yeah.
Make that seem like everybody shouldn't go, Hey, Hey, Hey,
you really can affect things and you really should pay attention to this.
And we should all figure out a way to do it together where the, the,
the whole motivation is to make life better for everybody.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> when you really, really, really, really rich,
let's say really, really, really, really, really rich.
What if you just really, really, really, really <laugh>. You could notice,
you ain't noticing. You're not gonna notice,
but you are contributing in a dynamic way to a system
that helped you get really, really, really, really rich.
See the balancing act is not wanting to get to a place where you stifle
people's need to do well because they, they have,
they need to have some sort of motivation.
Some people do you want 'em to have motivation,
but you want 'em to feel good about contributing too. Sure.
That's that's what's up.
It's not this idea that they're gonna come steal your money. It's like, no,
we're you are gonna help. You're gonna, we're not stealing any money.
You're gonna help people that can't help themselves.
Like there's people you might have got lucky.
You might have got a good parent in, in a good situation, a good neighborhood,
good school. You did well. Some people don't, some people get.
When they're real young, they get robbed. They get beaten up. They get tortured.
They get scared. That's normal in life too. And you can help that.
And this is what I think when you get lost,
in words like socialism and libertarianism and all these different
labels that carry all this weight behind them. If we just say like,
what's your intentions is your intentions to make the community a,
a better place for everybody and make people happy and make sure people have
food and make people are loved and make sure people are in a war.
That's what we should do as a community. Mm-hmm <affirmative> yeah.
That's what we should do. Although this stuff is. Cuz if you don't have that,
you don't have anything and you're gonna real.
You're gonna feel really uncomfortable. Yeah. Yeah man. That's the thing.
That's the thing. And these labels, whether it's liberal, Republican, you cook,
you know, you hippie and all these different labels of people.
It's so easy to dismiss people with these labels and they have such an agenda.
Right. And it,
it plays on that part of the human psyche that wants to be a part of a team
and attack opposing ideas. And it becomes a tribal thing.
It's so hard to sort out what's right. And what's wrong, you know?
But I think we're in a weird space where there's no one at the wheel,
I think is the first time there's no,
the government doesn't have a hold of wheel. There's no mystery media. No, no,
that'ss all, what's so scary. It's all eroding for our eyes, but no, the,
the helm, no, one's got a hold of that. battleship, you know,
the parroshipss they have those handles on the wheel da and you know,
strap yourself in and. No one's at that wheel. That thing is just, well.
You know, I'm gonna,
I'm gonna go out out on a limb here and you said this earlier and we laughed
about it. But like the thing is, you know,
you said the word love and like music and art
and you know,
things that are cohesive in communal environments and
helping people come together.
Like in terms of like, feeling like, like what, what can I contribute? Like,
how can I help? Because this feels like an epidemic, this, this disandment,
you know, amongst us. Yeah. And all this fear, everybody's so scared.
I'm scared. You know, I, I am, I'm really scared not I go in and out of it.
I go in and out of.
You just bring us back in. Right. I don't know.
My, my fear is fleeting. You know, it it's things that are, that feel,
feel a little superficial at times. But the end of the day, like this,
the love thing that, the energy that, you know, you, you could make fun of me.
I don't give a. You know, like the fact is like, we all need it.
You know, we all want it and we all deserve it. So what,
what are you gonna do with that? You know,
like we can sit here and dive sect politics and agendas
and this guy and this guy and socialism all this stuff,
but we all need to feel that thing. And it is love. Yeah.
And it's very, very, very powerful. Um, and it comes in many forms and,
and has, you know, different hats. And I think that right now,
like, like I'm sure that you feel it at a show, right.
When you play music for people, you know, uh,
I'm sure you feel it all the time. <laugh>, you know,
with your podcast and with your shows and with the outreach that you have and,
you know, and forgive me, I don't wanna assume, you know, and, and I feel it, I,
in all the varying degrees of the shows that I play and things,
and like at the end of the day, this stuff I like where we're at, uh,
is a scary place, but there's like this thing,
there's this like kind of one thing. And it's, it is the love thing.
And that has like a bunch of different adjectives around it and verbs that it,
or like recognizing each other. Yeah. And seeing each other and saying, Hey,
we're different, but we're the same. And we're, we're okay. Like,
let's keep moving. You know, I,
the thing that saves me from all this like deep depths of fear
is that, mm, like, period,
there's really nothing else. I have to say, like,
cuz it's a weird world that we're living in, but that's the thing, that's it.
It is a weird world and people can tip left our right.
Or I that's a bad analogy. People can tip good or bad one way or another,
depending upon how you approach them. Sure.
And this is the thing that a lot of us get wrong. You run into someone,
they're a Dick, you're a Dick back. It turns into a fight and you're like, oh,
that guy was a Dick. Yes.
But sometimes when someone's a Dick and you're not a Dick,
they stop being a Dick.
We literally talked about this at the beginning of the podcast. That's right.
That's right. We did. Where like, will you diff diffuse a situation where um,
energy gets heated and somebody's angry or, or, you know, um,
I don't know if I should retell the story, but like, you know, you, uh,
it's accountability too. Like, you know, when you mess.
Up, it' up, it's the presumptions. Right? Right.
You go into conversations with presumptions of how this guy feels about you.
Like this guy thinks I'm an idiot. I know. Ooh.
Well it's like a winner society. It's like, you have to be right.
But you know what? It's a, it's okay. To be wrong. I made a mistake.
I'm so sorry.
It's not just okay to be wrong. It's a gift when you're wrong. It's a gift.
Cuz that humility that comes with being wrong is what really helps your
education as a person. Yes. Agree. As a, as a, a,
a girlfriend, a boyfriend, a lover, a father, a son,
you learn, when you up, you learn, you learn like, God I was wrong. Like that.
That's a valuable lesson cuz it's a humiliating lesson. Well.
And you set yourself free too, because there's a, um,
there's some you're hanging on to righteousness like this. Like you know,
an ability to say that you were wrong. Yep. That is a burden.
It's not just a burden. It's, it's a foolish pursuit.
Like you should relish every opportunity to apologize and say you're wrong as a
showing of strength. Yeah. Because if you think you're strong, you,
you think you're strong and you know you're wrong and you don't tell the truth.
Well then you are a fool. You're,
you're missing out on an opportunity for you to be strong.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> for you to show that you're strong.
The show that you made a mistake, I've made a lot of mistakes.
I make 'em all the time. I'm a dummy. All right. Like I do my best, but you,
but ultimately at the end of the day, there's a lot of dummy. And then,
and I do my best. But if I, I make a mistake, I,
I will own the outta that mistake.
If you talk to me about it and you want to have a discussion about it,
I'm not one of those people that I just,
I don't think there's any value in pretending you didn't make a mistake.
I think there's a.
Real, but that's societal. But I think we're wrong with that misconception.
Like it's it's they don't know the people that did it didn't understand. The,
the, the,
the rules that were written were written by people who really hadn't had a good
grasp of the territory yet. They didn't really understand what they were saying.
They should have taught people that in school,
they should have taught people like that in junior high school, high school.
For sure. They should have said your, your failures,
those feelings that you feel like they teach you about history and math and
those things are great. There's nothing wrong with that.
But they should have taught us about how your failures are a very valuable
fuel. Yeah. That,
that feeling that you get when a girl dumps you or that feeling that you get
when you crash your car or that feeling that you get, when you ruin something,
you say something wrong. When something comes outta your mouth, when you,
anything you do wrong, you flunk out of a class. Yeah. Whatever the it is,
that negative feeling is a boost.
It's supposed to take you into the next orbit. Yeah.
It's almost to blast you into the next level of understanding what you were
doing wrong and how to improve in your life and how to go forward with better
habits. If you don't experience that pain, that feeling that embarrassment,
then you don't really know how valuable it is to stay on your grind.
And people say it all the time and it resonates with people.
You gotta stay on your grind. You're like, yes, yes. But you almost.
Why do you, why do you think that it's not okay to be human?
Like why do you think this societally speaking?
We can't just be like accountable and strong at the same time. Well.
We're, we're just nervous. It's not that we don't. But like, I.
Mean like systemically, like that is since the beginning is that like the,
the like monkey brain in us. That's like, you have to be the alpha, all that.
Like I've thought about this forever boggles my mind.
It's just because we're worried about people that are not pulling their weight.
When people are starving at death, it's an, an ancient, ancient instinct.
When there, like,
if we barely had enough food to keep our babies alive and our friends alive and
our parents alive, barely had enough food. And we saw someone slacking, holy,
did you wanna kill them? If you saw them,
someone that was sneaking food that was taking too much food,
or you saw someone that wasn't putting in their work and you were just slightly
shy of being comfortable and you knew this lazy,
they just did their work. We would all be fine, but they don't do what we do.
They, they,
they claim their foot hurt or they claim their back hurts and they go back to
their cave and everybody wants to kill 'em that's what the that's for?
It's a Reese horse balanced relationship. That's.
Like the, um, sort of aggression against like welfare people that need it. Yes.
And people that don't people that ex that exactly. You know, exploit it.
I get it. Exactly. Exactly. Well, what's,
it's attaching ultimatum or ultimate rather like this is the ultimate
truth to any sort of circumstance in a general sense, like to pretend that, uh,
you have a million,
let's pretend you have a city of X amount of people and you have a million
people that are on some sort of assistance,
whether it's food stamps or welfare or whatever, to pretend,
they're all one thing mm-hmm <affirmative> is crazy to pretend.
It's all one story. It's crazy. Yeah. One set of circumstances.
One set that's nuts that it's nuts. The, the, the question should be like,
look, there's no billionaires that are signing up for food stamps. Right?
There's no millionaires that are trying to get welfare for money. Right.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> so it's only when you're desperate.
So the question is like, how do we engineer society?
So that even the most desperate people never hit that spot,
never hit a spot where they need assistance.
The most desperate people are always taken care of,
or they don't have to worry about it. And then what motivation is,
is just following your dreams, doing what you enjoy doing, whether it's a,
a thing like playing music or writing books or whatever it is,
whatever it is, finding that thing. But that,
that motivation for doing that thing should be above all above
the idea that you have to survive by doing some job, to make a living,
to pay for your bills and just Rob you of your, your,
your time and your resources. It should be like, Hey. Face wrecking. Nice. This,
you don't have a lot of resource. Okay. All right. Let's just pretend you don't,
you don't need a job. We're gonna give you the money. You don't need a job,
but understand this. You're giving it a gift.
You give it a gift that Beethoven never had. Hendrix never had nobody had it.
You got, you got money enough to live. Now go, but understand. You got,
if you're lucky, you live 80 years, every ING over there. And I' like, tomorrow,
every time yousne, you're worrying, you're gonna die.
Yeah.
We just have to look at the way we distribute money as being like,
we think about it right now as being, this is the way we've always done it.
This is the way we're gonna do it. But money didn't even exist.
<laugh> this is always, that's so crazy. This is really recent.
It doesn't mean you were doing it right.